we tend to like people who put an effort
we're inspired by stories of people's
succeeding against all odds through hard
work and dedication and we're less
impressed with people who are just
famous for being famous all you have to
do is show up it also applies to the way
we play let's say all you do is jump
back to get away and throw a fireball or
jump-forward.heavy-kick sweep and when
the opponent is close this play style
has been encapsulated in a meme known as
flowchart can a game plan so basic you
can fit it on a sheet of paper but what
makes people rage is that this flowchart
is surprisingly effective the player
Gandhi in the previous analysis video
won by playing this way there's
something frustrating about losing to
the same simple pattern and it feels
especially annoying to get hit by the
same move over and over again this might
be wine smash hitting someone with the
same move in succession makes it weaker
and weaker until you do a different
attack it's called stale move negation
or just staling regardless the terrible
feeling comes from the fact that your
opponent seemingly beats you without
doing much or thinking much you might
call them or their character brain-dead
and say all they were doing is this one
thing or maybe you might say you then
though nothing and while you could be
right about all that why should anyone
have to use any more brain power than
needed to defeat their opponent doing
certain tasks while brain-dead or at
least without much thinking is often the
best way to do it for example how much
do you think about when to shoot and
when not to shoot in the vertical
scrolling shooter rated hopefully never
because you have unlimited ammo there's
no need to reload and there are no idiot
bystanders in the way
[Music]
the shooting aspect of this game is
something we just do this mode of
thinking that's unconscious effortless
automatic and fast is called system one
system one is why it doesn't take long
for you to know which of these you'd
prefer to eat and why you can quickly
know how to finish the phrase
bread-and-butter
these things are brain dead easy but the
game Raiden has one other button the
bomb button you only start with three of
these so you need to think about when to
use them and when not to
maybe you'll use them when the bullet
hell gets too overwhelming or maybe
you'll save them for a certain boss this
mode of thinking that is conscious
calculating and slower is called system
- you need system - to handle things
like solving 16 x 23 in your head or
deciding which of these you'd rather eat
if you were to think hard about when to
fire bullets but be brain dead about
when to use bombs you probably wouldn't
be as good at Raiden it's good to know
when you need to autopilot and when you
need to make deliberate choices but
system 2 is uncomfortable because
thinking takes effort it even affects
you physically when thinking hard and
slow
your muscles tense up your heart rate
speeds up your blood pressure rises and
most interestingly your pupils become
dilated this might be why some poker
players wear sunglasses indoors and why
lie detectors measure your blood
pressure and pulse lying requires more
thinking because you have to constantly
remember what you said to keep your
story straight
you really have to calm down you'll fail
the test in fighting games your blood
pressure might literally rise from
having to remember moods for new players
your system too will be working hard to
learn motion inputs things like the
dragon punch motion are especially
difficult because it's so unlike
anything else you do in life at least a
360 motion is kind of like churning
butter well actually not really but
because dragon punches are such powerful
anti airs people tend to try them every
chance they get even if they mess up a
lot but not DJ cuber cuber all right
let's go da Kubrick clearly knows how to
do a tracking punch
he's got the uppercut a floor and
everything but he doesn't do it when his
opponent jumps at him he uses this move
instead crouching hard punch yo Qbert
this is much easier to do because you
just input a direction and a button and
you get pretty damn close to a dragon
punch
I mean Ken's not flying off the ground
or anything but it looks close enough
and also hits people out of the air this
poor man's dragon punch acts as a system
one alternative to the much harder of
motion input dragon punch DJ Qbert was
smart enough to use the simpler move in
tight entire situations instead of
attempting a motion input he hadn't
completely mastered yet few things take
more effort than using your slow
thinking system to under time pressure
and that's when things come out wrong
but of course you can practice motion
input so much that it becomes fast easy
and automatic this means what once
required your system to to perform can
now properly be handled by system one
with practice some activities can become
quick and automatic but what if you
don't want to do the knockoff dragon
punch and you're not able to
consistently do the real one some games
now give you the option to do a special
move with either the motion input or a
simple input during a match in granblue
fantasy versus there's a dedicated
button you can press with a directional
that lets you do simple input special
moves but the downside is that it has a
longer cooldown time than the motion
input meaning you have to wait longer
until you can use it again but this
doesn't mean the easy input is just for
casuals because the best players use
both motion and simple inputs depending
on the situation no matter how good you
get at doing the motion input the simple
input requires less time to execute
for example cooldown time doesn't matter
if your move wins the round
[Music]
so here's a quick question a bat and a
ball cost $1 10 the bat cost one dollar
more than the ball how much does the
ball cost the answer is five cents if
the answer of 10 cents came across your
mind you're not unlike over half the Ivy
League students who also got this
question wrong your system tool is
likely just sitting there while system 1
blurted out an intuitive but incorrect
answer system 2 can be notoriously lazy
while system 1 can be very eager it's
not that it was a hard question it's
just that system 2 has to get up and
tell system 1 to take a back seat for
this particular problem system 2 is in
charge of self-control
anyone who's refrained from eating a
slice of pizza or refrain from tossing
their controller knows what this feels
like
while system 1 is often correct about
its quick conclusions such as this
equals 4 or this movie's going to suck
it can make some serious errors of
judgment in other cases but the biggest
problem with system 1 is that it's hard
if not impossible to shut off entirely
if you doubt this try to play your
favorite fighting game with all your
buttons reversed even if you managed to
never press the wrong button to tip more
mental energy because system 2 had to
step in meaning tensor muscles cost
higher chance of input error in other
ways there's a reason why countless
hours have been spent on button checks
at fighting game tournaments so here's a
not so quick question count how many
times the players wearing white pass the
basketball you can pause the video
you're watching now go over to this one
and count for yourself when you come
back with your answer you may or may not
have realized that there was a gorilla
that walked through the scene even
though it was there for 9 seconds about
half the people who are counting the
passes in this video did not see the
gorilla which suggests that under system
2 we can be blind to the obvious anyone
who just sees this video without doing a
task will see the gorilla this explains
why some of the best players in the
world do not respond with an anti-air
when their opponent jumps at them
but what occupies the players attention
are other mentally intensive things like
the neutral game going on on the ground
the opponent's jumping attack acts as
the invisible gorilla here the shows
that as much as we want to think hard
about each situation to make the best
decision possible system 2 takes too
much effort to do so your brain will be
completely fried but what if you could
fry your opponent's brain instead
[Music]
fighting game legend justin wong is one
of the few people who can say they've
made a career out of making people lose
their patience justin play super lame
there's only 30 seconds left so what
does justin do to make people so
frustrated
i will say this though Tooting is
blocking because when you block a lot
it gets people mad because obviously
when people practice fighting game they
all they do is training mode practice
combos practice setups but if you just
sit there and block and all they can do
is just really like grab or just do a
frame trap and then back off for example
right and i think for them it's like not
fun because it's like very dry because
you're not giving them what they want if
you have good defense and you just block
all day they will get frustrated they
start blocking with their face
excellent defense requires your opponent
to have self-control because they can't
just give in to their temptation to go
in and attack I remember I used to play
even faster than I do now
I would make really quick mistakes I'm
supposed to think first I would want to
beat them so bad I just want to do this
and I want to do this I'm gonna do this
I want to do this but the way Tekken
works especially at high level you have
to learn how to shut down you have to
see how they react to what you're doing
so yeah I definitely have to change our
play before cuz I played way too fast
and I wasn't adapting I was just playing
to kill not playing to break them down
slowly but self-control is an effortful
system to activity and studies by a
psychologist Roy Baumeister have
suggested that if you force self-control
upon yourself like this your ability to
exert self-control lessons for the next
challenge this is called ego depletion
and ego depleted people have been known
to succumb quicker to the urge to quit
in physical task resisting junk food and
apparently melee matches against
Jigglypuff and when you lose control you
make terrible decisions like throwing
crabs at people I love hungry mouths
play I love Jigglypuff but I also see
the fact that like other smash players
don't want to play lame I know melee is
exciting it's very high but all I see is
aggressive rushdown fox falco you know
like those characters but then you see
hungrybox just timing you out laning you
out and even just like other
Jigglypuff's is just sitting there and
just you know stalling the clock and
it's a smart man the fact like that guy
got that ice climber to rage quit that
was great I love that I love seeing rage
quit stuff like that all the time it's a
weird and controversial idea that we all
possess some kind of mental energy meter
that causes us to lose self-control as
it goes down but effortful thinking
actually does cause your blood sugar
level to drop so the question is would
it help to maintain your self-control if
you just replenish yourself with more
sugar ba Meister's team tested this by
giving subjects in an ego depleting task
and then giving them some lemonade
but half the lemonade had real sugar
while the other half had an artificial
sweetener Splenda when given the next
challenge the ones who had the real
sugar actually performed better than the
ones with the fake sugar so does that
mean the key to beating defensive
players is to have sugar between games
let's not get too carried away but it is
something to think about especially when
you get to game 19 final game final
round and win the idea of either playing
brain-dead or depleting mental energy
all the time
understandably doesn't sound like a fun
thing to do because it's not but as you
understand the game and meet the right
opponents you'll start to deliberately
control your attention instead of
mindlessly playing or forcing
concentration on each task sometimes
you'll be so absorbed in a game that you
lose track of time
all your worries seem to disappear and
all you can think about is what you're
doing in a moment the thing you're doing
can be anything from playing fighting
games to video editing the psychologists
may hide Csikszentmihalyi
called the state flow but you might have
heard it referred to as being in the
zone I mean everything kind of feels in
sync it's like you feeling good about
the shot your confidence is through the
roof is the best feeling in the world
Csikszentmihalyi has referred to flow as
an optimal experience and professor raj
raghunathan writes that pursuing flow is
one of the habits of the highly happy
but in order to reach this state you
need good tutorials there has to be a
kind of a clear goal good matchmaking
the goal should not be too difficult or
too easy but fairly well matched to your
skills and good Necker the activity as
you start acting towards the goal should
provide feedback immediately if you look
at csikszentmihalyi's flow chart you'll
notice the sweet spot to achieve flow is
at the intersection of high perceived
skill and high perceives challenge but
being good at something and facing
challenges that match your skill is also
how you get better
so does that mean getting good is a key
to happiness let's not get carried away
but it is something to think about this
was Gerald from Quarry gaming thanks for
watching and thanks for coming after
four months of grinding we finally
finished our new studio / fighting game
venue in Seoul Quarry Studios will
provide video content services in the
day and beat down sessions at night make
sure to look in the description for
details on when we're open especially
when there's a pandemic outbreak this
video is largely based on Thinking Fast
and Slow by Nobel laureate Daniel
Kahneman and it so happens that this
video is sponsored by audible where you
can find this and thousands of other
audio books podcasts and original
content I'm one of those people who gets
motion sickness when I read in vehicles
so this service is actually really
useful for me the good audio book will
teach you much more than any video essay
or anything on social media for that
matter if you sign up for a free 30-day
trial you get a free audio book of your
choice along with two audible originals
just go to audible.com slash Corey
gaming or text Corey gaming to the
number 500 500 thanks for all your
support and see you next video
so I used to play in chinatown fair and
there was one time I was playing King of
Fighters 98 and I was playing this
character called Ken soo and he's really
lame at that version of 98 where he just
does a sweet fireball and standing heavy
kick it's like perfect an entire it's
also a very big like large hitbox so
this guy got really mad because I OC
beat him with just just doing that one
sequence like I didn't have any combos I
just did sweet fireball that's all I did
and then after that he actually walked
back and then he had a Taser and he
tased me at the lowest setting oh my god
I should really hurt
[Music]
you